---
title: "Fast.ai lesson #1 answers to questions"
date: "2021-06-17T06:12:01.587Z"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "fastai-q&a-1"
category: "Uncategorized"
tags:
  - "untagged"
description: "Questions & answers & comments."
socialImage: "/media/image-1.jpg"
---

- [Q & A](#q--a)
  - [1. Do you need these for deep learning?](#1-do-you-need-these-for-deep-learning)
  - [2. Name five areas where deep learning is now the best in the world.](#2-name-five-areas-where-deep-learning-is-now-the-best-in-the-world)
  - [3. What was the name of the first device that was based on the principle of the artificial neuron?](#3-what-was-the-name-of-the-first-device-that-was-based-on-the-principle-of-the-artificial-neuron)
  - [4. Based on the book of the same name, what are the requirements for parallel distributed processing (PDP)?](#4-based-on-the-book-of-the-same-name-what-are-the-requirements-for-parallel-distributed-processing-pdp)
  - [5. What were the two theoretical misunderstandings that held back the field of neural networks?](#5-what-were-the-two-theoretical-misunderstandings-that-held-back-the-field-of-neural-networks)
  - [6. What is a GPU?](#6-what-is-a-gpu)
  - [7. Open a notebook and execute a cell containing: 1+1. What happens?](#7-open-a-notebook-and-execute-a-cell-containing-11-what-happens)
  - [8. Follow through each cell of the stripped version of the notebook for this chapter. Before executing each cell, guess what will happen.](#8-follow-through-each-cell-of-the-stripped-version-of-the-notebook-for-this-chapter-before-executing-each-cell-guess-what-will-happen)
  - [9. Complete the Jupyter Notebook online appendix.](#9-complete-the-jupyter-notebook-online-appendix)
  - [10. Why is it hard to use a traditional computer program to recognize images in a photo?](#10-why-is-it-hard-to-use-a-traditional-computer-program-to-recognize-images-in-a-photo)
  - [11. What did Samuel mean by "weight assignment"?](#11-what-did-samuel-mean-by-weight-assignment)
  - [12. What term do we normally use in deep learning for what Samuel called "weights"?](#12-what-term-do-we-normally-use-in-deep-learning-for-what-samuel-called-weights)
  - [13. Draw a picture that summarizes Samuel's view of a machine learning model.](#13-draw-a-picture-that-summarizes-samuels-view-of-a-machine-learning-model)
  - [14. Why is it hard to understand why a deep learning model makes a particular prediction?](#14-why-is-it-hard-to-understand-why-a-deep-learning-model-makes-a-particular-prediction)
  - [15. What is the name of the theorem that shows that a neural network can solve any mathematical problem to any level of accuracy?](#15-what-is-the-name-of-the-theorem-that-shows-that-a-neural-network-can-solve-any-mathematical-problem-to-any-level-of-accuracy)
  - [16. What do you need in order to train a model?](#16-what-do-you-need-in-order-to-train-a-model)
  - [17. How could a feedback loop impact the rollout of a predictive policing model?](#17-how-could-a-feedback-loop-impact-the-rollout-of-a-predictive-policing-model)
  - [18. Do we always have to use 224×224-pixel images with the cat recognition model?](#18-do-we-always-have-to-use-224224-pixel-images-with-the-cat-recognition-model)
  - [19. What is the difference between classification and regression?](#19-what-is-the-difference-between-classification-and-regression)
  - [20. What is a validation set? What is a test set? Why do we need them?](#20-what-is-a-validation-set-what-is-a-test-set-why-do-we-need-them)
  - [21. What will fastai do if you don't provide a validation set?](#21-what-will-fastai-do-if-you-dont-provide-a-validation-set)
  - [22. Can we always use a random sample for a validation set? Why or why not?](#22-can-we-always-use-a-random-sample-for-a-validation-set-why-or-why-not)
  - [23. What is overfitting? Provide an example.](#23-what-is-overfitting-provide-an-example)
  - [24. What is a metric? How does it differ from "loss"?](#24-what-is-a-metric-how-does-it-differ-from-loss)
- [Answers with suboptimal understanding of the underlining knowledge](#answers-with-suboptimal-understanding-of-the-underlining-knowledge)


**From:** https://github.com/fastai/fastbook/blob/master/01_intro.ipynb

## Q & A

### 1. Do you need these for deep learning?
- Lots of math T / F
- Lots of data T / F
- Lots of expensive computers T / F
- A PhD T / F

*Answer:*

False for all. For this course.  
Though it may vary for other purposes, i.e. reading scientific DL papers.

### 2. Name five areas where deep learning is now the best in the world.

Wow. The applications are so vast. The internet is shallow on these. Probably only experts know what's going on in the field. Therefore, a great opportunity to explore applications of AI in a series of posts.

Imagine me producing weekly updates on which startup done what with which categories and which papers are published out there now exploring the subject. Could be good.

For now, a shameless copy-paste:

**Natural language processing (NLP):**
- Answering questions; 
- speech recognition; 
- summarizing documents; 
- classifying documents; 
- finding names, dates, etc. in documents; 
- searching for articles mentioning a concept

**Computer vision:**
- Satellite and drone imagery interpretation (e.g., for disaster resilience);
- face recognition; 
- image captioning; 
- reading traffic signs; 
- locating pedestrians and vehicles in autonomous vehicles

**Medicine:**
- Finding anomalies in radiology images, including CT, MRI, and X-ray images;
-  counting features in pathology slides; 
-  measuring features in ultrasounds;
-  diagnosing diabetic retinopathy

**Biology:** 
- Folding proteins; 
- classifying proteins; 
- many genomics tasks, such as tumor-normal sequencing and classifying clinically actionable genetic mutations; 
- cell classification;
-  analyzing protein/protein interactions

**Image generation:**
- Colorizing images;
- increasing image resolution;
- removing noise from images; 
- converting images to art in the style of famous artists

**Recommendation systems:**
- Web search; 
- product recommendations; 
- home page layout

**Playing games:**
- Chess, Go, most Atari video games, and many real-time strategy games

**Robotics:**
- Handling objects that are challenging to locate (e.g., transparent, shiny, lacking texture) or hard to pick up

**Other applications:**
- Financial and logistical forecasting; 
- text to speech, and much more...


### 3. What was the name of the first device that was based on the principle of the artificial neuron?

**Answer**: Mark I Perceptron by Rosenblatt. 

**Commments**: I was always fascinated by uselessness of such knowledge. In terms of getting things done. But what a great work, mr. Rosenblatt. Respect.

> The useful - and useless.  
> The sides of one coin.  
> Would you pay with it to buy healthy food?  
> Would you pay with it to buy alcohol?  
> One harms you - other gives you health.  
> The healthy - and harmful.  
> The sides of one coin... 

### 4. Based on the book of the same name, what are the requirements for parallel distributed processing (PDP)?


*The most pivotal work...* released in 1986 by MIT press.

> Hey bros. I've figured out that it's possible to make a program that can be as smart as humans.

> No way man! What do we need for that?

> Just a few things. Here you go:

**Reqs:**
- A set of processing units *(like a perceptron)*
- A state of activation *(dunno, activation function? what exactly it does...)*
- An output function for each unit *(shaky on this one...)*
- A pattern of connectivity among units *(what is that again?..)*
- A propagation rule for propagating patterns of activities through the network - of connectivities *(alright, revise later...)*
- An activation rule for combining the inputs impinging on a unit with the - current state of that unit to produce an output for the unit *(...)*
- A learning rule whereby patterns of connectivity are modified by experience *(...)*
- An environment within which the system must operate *(jupyter notebook?..)*


### 5. What were the two theoretical misunderstandings that held back the field of neural networks?


Damn how silly are people sometimes. They literally read the first part and didn't pay attention to the second 😂


### 6. What is a GPU?


Graphic processing unit. For some reason it does computations better than the CPU. In certain cases, such as parralel computation on a vector [array]. 

I'd want to get a sense of why on some level of abstraction, maybe in a blog post later.


### 7. Open a notebook and execute a cell containing: 1+1. What happens?


Very funny, Jeremy.

Do I talk about how our mathematics is flawed and our chosen atomic unit "One" doesn't really represent reality and we struggle to achieve a new level of understanding of our universe because of it?

Or more on the subject. **Execute a cell** -> send request to the backend server where the jupyter notebook is hosted. Receive back the html (or partial update, json or whatever they're sending back. Damn good idea for a post ain't it). Received data contains the result of the operation and the frontend operator (browser in our case) is working out how to represent those changes.


### 8. Follow through each cell of the stripped version of the notebook for this chapter. Before executing each cell, guess what will happen.


Damn, feel lazy now. Jeremy wants me to exit my text editor (where I've copy-pasted my questions & doing answers to them). It's not a question even! It's an instruction on what to do. Assignment.

As a humble monk I'd follow the instruction. As a bad student, I won't. 

I'd write a classifier of questions & complexity of em to expect the unexpected in future.

9:15am now. Let us see how much I'd spend on this one. Thus making it more interesting.

https://colab.research.google.com/github/fastai/fastbook/blob/master/clean/01_intro.ipynb

Boom. It's 9:44am. Finished the task. Sleepy now 😪. Played around with some cells, which is profitable for learning.


### 9. Complete the Jupyter Notebook online appendix.


Dunno what this is. Pass.


### 10. Why is it hard to use a traditional computer program to recognize images in a photo?


Oh. Open question. If I'd answer this one without putting it online - surely I won't. 

Why is it hard? To recognize. What is recognition. Regognition of images. How would one go about doing this in a traditional program. Probably doable, given infinite time.

So there's no clear set of rules as to why this is a cat and why this is a dog. That's probably the answer. Both have ears, fur, tails. Some dogs are smaller than cats even. 

All the pixel transitions would have to be manually prescribed. If from this pixel to this pixel colorization, and from this to this and from this to this together, but not from this to this -> then we are 0.0001% more certain that this is a cat rather than a doge.

Yep, crazy amount of features and parameters, crazy dimensionality [complexity] of the task. Wow it's actually easy to create a website, rather than predicting cats or dogs.

It really is a good task for MLDL approach. With tons of features and program goes to figure.


### 11. What did Samuel mean by "weight assignment"?


A mechanism for a machine to learn by updating a value. I suppose.


### 12. What term do we normally use in deep learning for what Samuel called "weights"?


Parameters. Weight I dig better. I guess it might be Andrew NG's teaching. Which input value is heavier -> goes further. Weight. And parameter? Bloated. 


### 13. Draw a picture that summarizes Samuel's view of a machine learning model.


Program that updates weights over time, converging upon the improvement of progress overtime.


### 14. Why is it hard to understand why a deep learning model makes a particular prediction?


There're just too many variables. Our pesky human consciousness can't compete.


### 15. What is the name of the theorem that shows that a neural network can solve any mathematical problem to any level of accuracy?


Universal approximation. 


### 16. What do you need in order to train a model?


Beautiful data, suitable architecture, compute in the cloud. 


### 17. How could a feedback loop impact the rollout of a predictive policing model?



Unexpectedly. If model is biased. Police will do more arrests in particular area. More data to the model. If model is more biased...

There's a book on choosing the metric that better suits our needs. In lesson 2 or 3 Rachel talks about it.


### 18. Do we always have to use 224×224-pixel images with the cat recognition model?


Nope. Why? It doesn't matter how many pixels we feed in. Pixels are arbitrary numbers of inputs. That said, Jeremy has likely deduced this resolution to be most effective.


### 19. What is the difference between classification and regression?


Classification - choose one from many.
Regression - choose next number in progression.


### 20. What is a validation set? What is a test set? Why do we need them?


I'm still shaky on this one. Validation set has someting to do with intermediate model performance/accuracy. Whereas Test set deals with final model performance, after all fine tuning of hyperparameters and submitting what is perceived is the best model after all the work was done on it.  

More on it: https://colab.research.google.com/github/fastai/fastbook/blob/master/01_intro.ipynb

Find: *Validation Sets and Test Sets*


### 21. What will fastai do if you don't provide a validation set?


Make Validation set out of 20% of the Training set.


### 22. Can we always use a random sample for a validation set? Why or why not?


No, because it has to be corresponding with the model's idea. If we're targeting predicting of sales, for instance. Having the same days in both training and validation set will result in overfitting. We'd have to take certain days or months in future to validate it properly.

Shaky answer, better to revise that idea.


### 23. What is overfitting? Provide an example.



One of the ways to get the overfitting is when we train and validate the model on the same dataset. In that case, model will not learn the general parameters of what diffirentiates, say, cats vs dogs. But might cheat somehow.

Revise.


### 24. What is a metric? How does it differ from "loss"?






## Answers with suboptimal understanding of the underlining knowledge

20, 22, 23

What will we do about it? Learn the subject in question. Update the answers accordingly. It makes sense to give some kind of answer. To continue working on the overall structure of what makes a deep learning practitioner deep learning practitioner. That's what Jeremy always says, keep doing it, don't sweat it, you will get the idea later on.